this is a list of vulnerabilites that relate to the vulnerable Dockerfile (Dockerfile.vulnerable). these vulnerabilities are fixed in Dockerfile.hardened.

This documents the list of vulnerabilites found (by hand) in Dockerfile.vulnerable.


1. Running as root user. There is no user defined in the dockerfile, so docker runs as root. 
this violates 4.1 of the CIS docker benchmark test

2. Exposed password in the dockerfile. "ENV pwd=password12345" is hardcoded into the dockerfile.
this is dangerous because anyone with access to the host will be able to see the env password.
also anyone with access to the image can run "docker inspect" and read the password.
this violates 4.10 of the CIS docker benchmark test.

3. port 22 (ssh port) is opened. this exposes the container to attacks, brutefore or zero-days.
this violates principle 5.9 of the CIS docker benchmark test.

4. this uses python:latest rather than a set version. constantly changing the version of python used opens up new, undiscovered vulnerabilities.
this violates 4.11 of the cis docker benchmark
it also defeats the purpose of a continer, which is non-volatitility. 


5. this container does not have any resource limits with memory or CPU, meaning an attacker can do a DOS attack by overloading the container and making it consume all available memory and CPU cores.
this violates 5.11 of the CIS Docker benchmark.

6. there is no healthcheck defined in the dockerfile. 
this means that docker cannot check to see if the container is still up and running.
becuase of this, docker doesnt know wether or not to restart a container.
this violates 4.6 of the CIS docker benchmark

7. the default container capabilities are kept. this violates the CIS docker benchmark. 
all capablities should be taken away and only the ones need should be given back.
this violates 5.4 of the CIS docker benchmark.

8. the filesystem of the container is writeable, meaning the attacker can install tools like curl and exfiltrate data.
this violates 5.13 of the CIS docker benchmark.  

